packages/nav-link/README.md, before:

---
title: Nav Link
storybookPath: navigation-navlink--default
---

Nav links are styled links for use in site navigation.

```jsx live
<Stack as="nav" gap="small">
  <NavLink href="#" isSelected>
    <HomeIcon />
    Dashboard
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <ClipboardListIcon />
    Applications
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <BriefcaseIcon />
    Leads
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <AcademicCapIcon />
    Training
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <ChartSquareBarIcon />
    Analytics
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <CogIcon />
    Settings
  </NavLink>
</Stack>
```

## Children

Valid children of a `NavLink` are a string, or a string plus an icon. No other
combinations are allowed.

## isSelected

The `isSelected` prop is used to style the currently active page. It is
important that it is only treated as active if the page is current as it also
sets the `aria-current` attribute to `page`.

## Size

`NavLink`s can be either `medium` or `large`.

```jsx live
<Columns gap="small" collapseBelow="desktop">
  <Stack as="nav" gap="small">
    <NavLink href="#">Medium size nav item</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#" size="large">
      Medium size nav item
    </NavLink>
  </Stack>
  <Stack as="nav" gap="small">
    <NavLink href="#">
      <HomeIcon />
      Large size nav item
    </NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#" size="large">
      <HomeIcon />
      Large size nav item
    </NavLink>
  </Stack>
</Columns>
```

## Inline

By default, the underlying element will be `display: flex` and will take up all
available space. By setting the `inline` prop to `true` the `NavLink` will be
`display: inline-flex` instead.

```jsx live
<Stack gap="small">
  <Box>
    <NavLink href="#">NavLink without inline prop</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#">NavLink without inline prop</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#">NavLink without inline prop</NavLink>
  </Box>
  <Divider />
  <Box>
    <NavLink inline href="#">
      NavLink with inline prop
    </NavLink>
    <NavLink inline href="#">
      NavLink with inline prop
    </NavLink>
    <NavLink inline href="#">
      NavLink with inline prop
    </NavLink>
  </Box>
</Stack>
```

## Props

| Prop        | Type                                                                               | Default  | Description                                                                                 |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children    | string \| [ReactElement<IconProps\>, string] \| [string, ReactElement<IconProps\>] |          | Children element(s) to be rendered inside the NavLink.                                      |
| href        | string                                                                             |          | URL to be used for the link (passed to the underlying anchor element).                      |
| inline?     | boolean                                                                            |          | Indicates if NavLink should be inline or not.                                               |
| isSelected? | boolean                                                                            | false    | When true, add active styles to the NavLink and sets the `aria-current` attribute to `page` |
| size?       | string                                                                             | 'medium' | Sets the size of the NavLink.                                                               |

Commit message:

Add borderRadius to NavLink (#33)
* Add borderRadius to NavLink

* Add a11y to dependencies

* Document borderRadius use

* Add focus styles

* Add changeset

packages/nav-link/README.md, after:

---
title: Nav Link
storybookPath: navigation-navlink--default
---

Nav links are styled links for use in site navigation.

```jsx live
<Stack as="nav" gap="small">
  <NavLink href="#" isSelected>
    <HomeIcon />
    Dashboard
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <ClipboardListIcon />
    Applications
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <BriefcaseIcon />
    Leads
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <AcademicCapIcon />
    Training
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <ChartSquareBarIcon />
    Analytics
  </NavLink>
  <NavLink href="#">
    <CogIcon />
    Settings
  </NavLink>
</Stack>
```

## Children

Valid children of a `NavLink` are a string, or a string plus an icon. No other
combinations are allowed.

## Border Radius

There are two valid border radii for a `NavLink`: `'small'` and `'full'`.
Typically `'small'` should be used for vertical navigations (like a sidebar) and
`'full'` should be used for horizontal navigations like in a header.

```jsx live
<Stack gap="large">
  <Text weight="medium">
    Hover or focus to see the different border radius options
  </Text>
  <Stack as="nav" gap="small">
    <NavLink href="#">"Small" border radius nav item</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#" borderRadius="full">
      "Full" border radius nav item
    </NavLink>
  </Stack>
</Stack>
```

## isSelected

The `isSelected` prop is used to style the currently active page. It is
important that it is only treated as active if the page is current as it also
sets the `aria-current` attribute to `page`.

## Size

`NavLink`s can be either `medium` or `large`.

```jsx live
<Columns gap="small" collapseBelow="desktop">
  <Stack as="nav" gap="small">
    <NavLink href="#">Medium size nav item</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#" size="large">
      Medium size nav item
    </NavLink>
  </Stack>
  <Stack as="nav" gap="small">
    <NavLink href="#">
      <HomeIcon />
      Large size nav item
    </NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#" size="large">
      <HomeIcon />
      Large size nav item
    </NavLink>
  </Stack>
</Columns>
```

## Inline

By default, the underlying element will be `display: flex` and will take up all
available space. By setting the `inline` prop to `true` the `NavLink` will be
`display: inline-flex` instead.

```jsx live
<Stack gap="small">
  <Box>
    <NavLink href="#">NavLink without inline prop</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#">NavLink without inline prop</NavLink>
    <NavLink href="#">NavLink without inline prop</NavLink>
  </Box>
  <Divider />
  <Box>
    <NavLink inline href="#">
      NavLink with inline prop
    </NavLink>
    <NavLink inline href="#">
      NavLink with inline prop
    </NavLink>
    <NavLink inline href="#">
      NavLink with inline prop
    </NavLink>
  </Box>
</Stack>
```

## Props

| Prop          | Type                                                                               | Default  | Description                                                                                  |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| borderRadius? | 'full' \| 'medium'                                                                 | false    | Border radius of the NavLink.                                                                |
| children      | string \| [ReactElement<IconProps\>, string] \| [string, ReactElement<IconProps\>] |          | Children element(s) to be rendered inside the NavLink.                                       |
| href          | string                                                                             |          | URL to be used for the link (passed to the underlying anchor element).                       |
| inline?       | boolean                                                                            | false    | Indicates if NavLink should be inline or not.                                                |
| isSelected?   | boolean                                                                            | false    | When true, add active styles to the NavLink and sets the `aria-current` attribute to `page`. |
| size?         | string                                                                             | 'medium' | Sets the size of the NavLink.                                                                |
