packages/button/README.md, before:

---
title: Button
storybookPath: forms-buttons-button--default
---

Buttons are clickable elements that are used to trigger actions. They
communicate calls to action to the user and allow users to interact with pages
in a variety of ways. Button labels express what action will occur when the user
interacts with it.

## Tone

Button tones can be broken up into two types; decorative and semantic.

For destructive actions like “delete” you should use the semantic `tone` of
`critical`.

For buttons that have no semantic action type (more common on marketing pages)
use one of our decorative `tones`.

Defaults to `primary`.

```jsx live
<Stack gap="large">
  <Text weight="strong">Decorative tones</Text>
  <Inline gap="small">
    <Button tone="primary">Primary</Button>
    <Button tone="secondary">Secondary</Button>
  </Inline>
  <Divider />
  <Text weight="strong">Semantic tones</Text>
  <Inline gap="small">
    <Button tone="neutral">Neutral</Button>
    <Button tone="positive">Positive</Button>
    <Button tone="critical">Critical</Button>
  </Inline>
</Stack>
```

## Prominence

The appearance of the button can be customised with the prominence prop. Valid
options are: `low` and `high`.

Defaults to `high`.

```jsx live
const baseButtonTones = [
  { label: 'Primary', tone: 'primary' },
  { label: 'Secondary', tone: 'secondary' },
  { label: 'Neutral', tone: 'neutral' },
  { label: 'Positive', tone: 'positive' },
  { label: 'Critical', tone: 'critical' },
];

const extraButtonTones = [
  { label: 'Caution', tone: 'caution' },
  { label: 'Informative', tone: 'info' },
];

return (
  <Stack gap="large" dividers>
    <Stack gap="large">
      <Text weight="strong">High prominence</Text>
      <Inline gap="small">
        {baseButtonTones.map(({ label, tone }) => (
          <Button key={label} tone={tone} prominence="high">
            <LightBulbIcon />
            {label}
          </Button>
        ))}
      </Inline>
    </Stack>
    <Stack gap="large">
      <Text weight="strong">Low prominence</Text>
      <Inline gap="small">
        {baseButtonTones.concat(extraButtonTones).map(({ label, tone }) => (
          <Button key={label} tone={tone} prominence="low">
            <LightBulbIcon />
            {label}
          </Button>
        ))}
      </Inline>
    </Stack>
    <Stack gap="large">
      <Text weight="strong">None prominence</Text>
      <Inline gap="small">
        {baseButtonTones.concat(extraButtonTones).map(({ label, tone }) => (
          <Button key={label} tone={tone} prominence="none">
            <LightBulbIcon />
            {label}
          </Button>
        ))}
      </Inline>
    </Stack>
  </Stack>
);
```

## Size

Button's are available in two size: `medium` and `large`.

Defaults to `medium`.

```jsx live
<Inline gap="small">
  <Button size="medium">Medium</Button>
  <Button size="large">Large</Button>
</Inline>
```

## Icons

Icons can be placed next to labels to both clarify an action and call attention
to a button.

```jsx live
<Inline gap="small">
  <Button>
    <DownloadIcon />
    Download
  </Button>
  <Button tone="critical">
    <TrashIcon />
    Delete
  </Button>
</Inline>
```

### Icon only

When using buttons that contain only an icon, you must provide a `label` for
users of assistive technology.

```jsx live
<Inline gap="small">
  <Button label="Download PDF">
    <DownloadIcon />
  </Button>
  <Button tone="critical" label="Delete item">
    <TrashIcon />
  </Button>
  <Button tone="neutral" label="Dismiss">
    <XIcon size="xxsmall" />
  </Button>
</Inline>
```

## Loading

Buttons have an optional `loading` prop to indicate that an action is in
progress. When this is true a spinner will be displayed.

Note: buttons will not be interative when `loading` is true.

```jsx live
const [loading, setLoading] = React.useState(false);
const toggle = event => setLoading(event.target.checked);

return (
  <Stack gap="large">
    <Checkbox size="medium" checked={loading} onChange={toggle}>
      <Text>Toggle loading state</Text>
    </Checkbox>
    <Inline gap="large">
      <Button label="Download" loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
      </Button>
      <Button loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
        Download
      </Button>
    </Inline>
    <Inline gap="large">
      <Button label="Download" size="large" loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
      </Button>
      <Button size="large" loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
        Download
      </Button>
    </Inline>
  </Stack>
);
```

## ButtonLink

The appearance of a button, with the semantics of a link — shares `Button` API,
with the exception of `href` vs `onClick` props.

```jsx live
<Text>
  <ButtonLink href="#">Visually a link, with button semantics</ButtonLink>
</Text>
```

## Props

<PropsTable displayName="Button"/>

[data-attribute-map]:
  https://github.com/brighte-labs/spark-web/blob/e7f6f4285b4cfd876312cc89fbdd094039aa239a/packages/utils/src/internal/buildDataAttributes.ts#L1

Commit message:

Create unstyled BaseButton and focus button on click to address Safari bug (#153)

packages/button/README.md, after:

---
title: Button
storybookPath: forms-buttons-button--default
---

Buttons are clickable elements that are used to trigger actions. They
communicate calls to action to the user and allow users to interact with pages
in a variety of ways. Button labels express what action will occur when the user
interacts with it.

## Tone

Button tones can be broken up into two types; decorative and semantic.

For destructive actions like “delete” you should use the semantic `tone` of
`critical`.

For buttons that have no semantic action type (more common on marketing pages)
use one of our decorative `tones`.

Defaults to `primary`.

```jsx live
<Stack gap="large">
  <Text weight="strong">Decorative tones</Text>
  <Inline gap="small">
    <Button tone="primary">Primary</Button>
    <Button tone="secondary">Secondary</Button>
  </Inline>
  <Divider />
  <Text weight="strong">Semantic tones</Text>
  <Inline gap="small">
    <Button tone="neutral">Neutral</Button>
    <Button tone="positive">Positive</Button>
    <Button tone="critical">Critical</Button>
  </Inline>
</Stack>
```

## Prominence

The appearance of the button can be customised with the prominence prop. Valid
options are: `low` and `high`.

Defaults to `high`.

```jsx live
const baseButtonTones = [
  { label: 'Primary', tone: 'primary' },
  { label: 'Secondary', tone: 'secondary' },
  { label: 'Neutral', tone: 'neutral' },
  { label: 'Positive', tone: 'positive' },
  { label: 'Critical', tone: 'critical' },
];

const extraButtonTones = [
  { label: 'Caution', tone: 'caution' },
  { label: 'Informative', tone: 'info' },
];

return (
  <Stack gap="large" dividers>
    <Stack gap="large">
      <Text weight="strong">High prominence</Text>
      <Inline gap="small">
        {baseButtonTones.map(({ label, tone }) => (
          <Button key={label} tone={tone} prominence="high">
            <LightBulbIcon />
            {label}
          </Button>
        ))}
      </Inline>
    </Stack>
    <Stack gap="large">
      <Text weight="strong">Low prominence</Text>
      <Inline gap="small">
        {baseButtonTones.concat(extraButtonTones).map(({ label, tone }) => (
          <Button key={label} tone={tone} prominence="low">
            <LightBulbIcon />
            {label}
          </Button>
        ))}
      </Inline>
    </Stack>
    <Stack gap="large">
      <Text weight="strong">None prominence</Text>
      <Inline gap="small">
        {baseButtonTones.concat(extraButtonTones).map(({ label, tone }) => (
          <Button key={label} tone={tone} prominence="none">
            <LightBulbIcon />
            {label}
          </Button>
        ))}
      </Inline>
    </Stack>
  </Stack>
);
```

## Size

Button's are available in two size: `medium` and `large`.

Defaults to `medium`.

```jsx live
<Inline gap="small">
  <Button size="medium">Medium</Button>
  <Button size="large">Large</Button>
</Inline>
```

## Icons

Icons can be placed next to labels to both clarify an action and call attention
to a button.

```jsx live
<Inline gap="small">
  <Button>
    <DownloadIcon />
    Download
  </Button>
  <Button tone="critical">
    <TrashIcon />
    Delete
  </Button>
</Inline>
```

### Icon only

When using buttons that contain only an icon, you must provide a `label` for
users of assistive technology.

```jsx live
<Inline gap="small">
  <Button label="Download PDF">
    <DownloadIcon />
  </Button>
  <Button tone="critical" label="Delete item">
    <TrashIcon />
  </Button>
  <Button tone="neutral" label="Dismiss">
    <XIcon size="xxsmall" />
  </Button>
</Inline>
```

## Loading

Buttons have an optional `loading` prop to indicate that an action is in
progress. When this is true a spinner will be displayed.

Note: buttons will not be interative when `loading` is true.

```jsx live
const [loading, setLoading] = React.useState(false);
const toggle = event => setLoading(event.target.checked);

return (
  <Stack gap="large">
    <Checkbox size="medium" checked={loading} onChange={toggle}>
      <Text>Toggle loading state</Text>
    </Checkbox>
    <Inline gap="large">
      <Button label="Download" loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
      </Button>
      <Button loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
        Download
      </Button>
    </Inline>
    <Inline gap="large">
      <Button label="Download" size="large" loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
      </Button>
      <Button size="large" loading={loading}>
        <DownloadIcon />
        Download
      </Button>
    </Inline>
  </Stack>
);
```

## ButtonLink

The appearance of a button, with the semantics of a link — shares `Button` API,
with the exception of `href` vs `onClick` props.

```jsx live
<Text>
  <ButtonLink href="#">Visually a link, with button semantics</ButtonLink>
</Text>
```

## BaseButton

Unstyled button primitive that:

- Forwards the button ref
- Provides a default type of `button` (so it doesn't accidently submit forms if
  left off)
- Prevents `onClick` from firing when disabled without disabling the button
- Forces focus of the underlying button when clicked (to address a bug in
  Safari)

## Button Props

<PropsTable displayName="Button" />
