packages/fieldset/README.md, before:

---
title: Fieldset
storybookPath: forms-fieldset--default
---

Use the `Fieldset` to group thematically related controls in a form.

```jsx live
<Fieldset legend="Billing address">
  <Stack gap="small">
    <Field label="Street">
      <TextInput />
    </Field>
    <Field label="City">
      <TextInput />
    </Field>
    <Field label="State">
      <Select
        onChange={() => {}}
        options={[
          { label: 'New South Wales', value: 'NSW' },
          { label: 'Victoria', value: 'VIC' },
          { label: 'Queensland', value: 'QLD' },
          { label: 'South Australia', value: 'SA' },
          { label: 'Western Australia', value: 'WA' },
          { label: 'Tasmania', value: 'TAS' },
          { label: 'Northern Territory', value: 'NT' },
          { label: 'Australian Capital Territory', value: 'ACT' },
        ]}
      />
    </Field>
    <Field label="Postcode">
      <TextInput />
    </Field>
  </Stack>
</Fieldset>
```

## Example

### Legend

Provide a caption that describes the set of form fields.

```jsx live
<Fieldset legend="Name">
  <Columns gap="small">
    <Field label="First" labelVisibility="hidden">
      <TextInput placeholder="e.g. Jane" />
    </Field>
    <Field label="Last" labelVisibility="hidden">
      <TextInput placeholder="e.g. Smith" />
    </Field>
  </Columns>
</Fieldset>
```

## Props

| Prop      | Type                           | Default | Description                                               |
| --------- | ------------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| children? | React.ReactNode                |         | The form fields that comprise the set.                    |
| id?       | string                         |         | Sets a unique identifier for the element.                 |
| legend?   | string                         |         | Provide a caption that describes the set of form fields.  |
| gap?      | 'small' \| 'medium' \| 'large' | 'small' | Sets the size of the gap between the legend and children. |

Commit message:

Feature/sprk 56 components data attr (#83)
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Checkbox Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Column Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Currency Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Fieldset Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Heading Component

Co-authored-by: Chris Mitchell <chris.mitchell@brighte.com.au>

packages/fieldset/README.md, after:

---
title: Fieldset
storybookPath: forms-fieldset--default
---

Use the `Fieldset` to group thematically related controls in a form.

```jsx live
<Fieldset legend="Billing address">
  <Stack gap="small">
    <Field label="Street">
      <TextInput />
    </Field>
    <Field label="City">
      <TextInput />
    </Field>
    <Field label="State">
      <Select
        onChange={() => {}}
        options={[
          { label: 'New South Wales', value: 'NSW' },
          { label: 'Victoria', value: 'VIC' },
          { label: 'Queensland', value: 'QLD' },
          { label: 'South Australia', value: 'SA' },
          { label: 'Western Australia', value: 'WA' },
          { label: 'Tasmania', value: 'TAS' },
          { label: 'Northern Territory', value: 'NT' },
          { label: 'Australian Capital Territory', value: 'ACT' },
        ]}
      />
    </Field>
    <Field label="Postcode">
      <TextInput />
    </Field>
  </Stack>
</Fieldset>
```

## Example

### Legend

Provide a caption that describes the set of form fields.

```jsx live
<Fieldset legend="Name">
  <Columns gap="small">
    <Field label="First" labelVisibility="hidden">
      <TextInput placeholder="e.g. Jane" />
    </Field>
    <Field label="Last" labelVisibility="hidden">
      <TextInput placeholder="e.g. Smith" />
    </Field>
  </Columns>
</Fieldset>
```

## Props

| Prop      | Type                                   | Default | Description                                               |
| --------- | -------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| children? | React.ReactNode                        |         | The form fields that comprise the set.                    |
| id?       | string                                 |         | Sets a unique identifier for the element.                 |
| legend?   | string                                 |         | Provide a caption that describes the set of form fields.  |
| gap?      | 'small' \| 'medium' \| 'large'         | 'small' | Sets the size of the gap between the legend and children. |
| data?     | [DataAttributeMap][data-attribute-map] |         | Sets data attributes on the component.                    |

[data-attribute-map]:
  https://github.com/brighte-labs/spark-web/blob/e7f6f4285b4cfd876312cc89fbdd094039aa239a/packages/utils/src/internal/buildDataAttributes.ts#L1
