packages/currency-input/README.md, before:

---
title: Currency Input
storybookPath: forms-currency-input--default
---

Currency input provides a way for inputting money values. Note that this
component is similar to the [`FloatInput`](/package/float-input) component with
the difference that this component has 2 fraction digits enforced and a currency
symbol starting adornment.

## Examples

```jsx live
const [value, setValue] = React.useState(1000);

return (
  <Stack gap="large">
    <Field label="Example controlled">
      <CurrencyInput value={value} onChange={v => setValue(v)} />
    </Field>
    <Text>The current value is: {value}</Text>
  </Stack>
);
```

### Currency Symbol Adornment

You can specify what currency type you'd like for the currency symbol adornment
at the start of the input component. If unspecified, the currency symbol
adornment will default to AUD. Note that the currency codes are references to
the respective currency's
[ISO 4217 currency codes](https://www.iso.org/iso-4217-currency-codes.html).

```jsx live
<Stack gap="large">
  <Field label="Currency symbols">
    <CurrencyInput currencyType="EUR" />
    <CurrencyInput currencyType="RMB" />
    <CurrencyInput currencyType="KRW" />
  </Field>
</Stack>
```

| Prop          | Type                                 | Default | Description                                                                       |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| currencyType? | [CurrencyType][currency-symbol-type] | 'AUD'   | Specifies what currency symbol you want as a starting adornment to the component. |

Note that `CurrencyInput` also extends [`FloatInput`](/package/float-input)'s
props and are not listed here.

[currency-symbol-type]:
  https://github.com/brighte-labs/spark-web/blob/56249831f3013f4e070eb7b4633447a29cea4ebb/packages/currency-input/src/currencySymbolMap.ts

Commit message:

Feature/sprk 56 components data attr (#83)
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Checkbox Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Column Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Currency Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Fieldset Component
* SPRK-56 - Add Data Attribute for Heading Component

Co-authored-by: Chris Mitchell <chris.mitchell@brighte.com.au>

packages/currency-input/README.md, after:

---
title: Currency Input
storybookPath: forms-currency-input--default
---

Currency input provides a way for inputting money values. Note that this
component is similar to the [`FloatInput`](/package/float-input) component with
the difference that this component has 2 fraction digits enforced and a currency
symbol starting adornment.

## Examples

```jsx live
const [value, setValue] = React.useState(1000);

return (
  <Stack gap="large">
    <Field label="Example controlled">
      <CurrencyInput value={value} onChange={v => setValue(v)} />
    </Field>
    <Text>The current value is: {value}</Text>
  </Stack>
);
```

### Currency Symbol Adornment

You can specify what currency type you'd like for the currency symbol adornment
at the start of the input component. If unspecified, the currency symbol
adornment will default to AUD. Note that the currency codes are references to
the respective currency's
[ISO 4217 currency codes](https://www.iso.org/iso-4217-currency-codes.html).

```jsx live
<Stack gap="large">
  <Field label="Currency symbols">
    <CurrencyInput currencyType="EUR" />
    <CurrencyInput currencyType="RMB" />
    <CurrencyInput currencyType="KRW" />
  </Field>
</Stack>
```

| Prop          | Type                                   | Default | Description                                                                       |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| currencyType? | [CurrencyType][currency-symbol-type]   | 'AUD'   | Specifies what currency symbol you want as a starting adornment to the component. |
| data?         | [DataAttributeMap][data-attribute-map] |         | Sets data attributes on the component.                                            |

Note that `CurrencyInput` also extends [`FloatInput`](/package/float-input)'s
props and are not listed here.

[currency-symbol-type]:
  https://github.com/brighte-labs/spark-web/blob/56249831f3013f4e070eb7b4633447a29cea4ebb/packages/currency-input/src/currencySymbolMap.ts
[data-attribute-map]:
  https://github.com/brighte-labs/spark-web/blob/e7f6f4285b4cfd876312cc89fbdd094039aa239a/packages/utils/src/internal/buildDataAttributes.ts#L1
